Update granite.md (#37791)
huggingface/transformers: docs/source/en/model_doc/granite.md

an "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied. See the License for the
specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.

⚠️ Note that this file is in Markdown but contains specific syntax for our doc-builder (similar to MDX) that may not be
rendered properly in your Markdown viewer.

-->

<div class="flex flex-wrap space-x-1">
<img alt="PyTorch" src="https://img.shields.io/badge/PyTorch-DE3412?style=flat&logo=pytorch&logoColor=white">
<img alt="FlashAttention" src="https://img.shields.io/badge/%E2%9A%A1%EF%B8%8E%20FlashAttention-eae0c8?style=flat">
<img alt="SDPA" src="https://img.shields.io/badge/SDPA-DE3412?style=flat&logo=pytorch&logoColor=white">
</div>

# Granite

> [Granite](https://huggingface.co/ibm-granite) model was proposed in [Power Scheduler: A Batch Size and Token Number Agnostic Learning Rate Scheduler](https://arxiv.org/abs/2408.13359) by Yikang Shen, Matthew Stallone, Mayank Mishra, Gaoyuan Zhang, Shawn Tan, Aditya Prasad, Adriana Meza Soria, David D. Cox, and Rameswar Panda.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Granite](https://huggingface.co/papers/2408.13359) is a 3B parameter language model trained with the Power scheduler. Discovering a good learning rate for pretraining large language models is difficult because it depends on so many variables (batch size, number of training tokens, etc.) and it is expensive to perform a hyperparameter search. The Power scheduler is based on a power-law relationship between the variables and their transferability to larger models. Combining the Power scheduler with Maximum Update Parameterization (MUP) allows a model to be pretrained with one set of hyperparameters regardless of all the variables.
```

> Granite model is a series of AI language models built for businesses, not just for general use. It is a super-focused tool for enterprise tasks like summarizing reports, answering questions, or generating code. It is trained on curated datasets (think finance, legal, code, and academic stuff) and filters out junk like duplicates or harmful content with their HAP detector. It comes in different sizes, from super lightweight (sub-billion parameters) up to 34 billion, so you can pick what fits your needs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> You can find all the original Granite checkpoints under the [Granite](https://huggingface.co/ibm-granite) collection.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can find all the original Granite checkpoints under the [IBM-Granite](https://huggingface.co/ibm-granite) organization.
```

> [!TIP]
> Click on the Granite models in the right sidebar for more examples of how to apply Granite to different language tasks.

> The example below demonstrates how to generate text based on an image with [`Pipeline`] or the [`AutoModel`] class.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The example below demonstrates how to generate text with [`Pipeline`], [`AutoModel`, and from the command line.
```

Reviewer: Not resolved

<hfoptions id="usage">
<hfoption id="Pipeline">

```py

> from transformers import pipeline

Reviewer: ```suggestion
import torch
from transformers import pipeline
```

> pipe = pipeline(

Reviewer: Simplify this example to:

```py
import torch
from transformers import pipeline

pipeline = pipeline(
    task="text-generation",
    model="ibm-granite/granite-3.3-2b-base",
    torch_dtype=torch.bfloat16,
    device=0
)
pipeline("Explain quantum computing in simple terms ", max_new_tokens=50)
```

    "text-generation",
    model="ibm-granite/granite-3.3-8b-instruct",
    tokenizer=tokenizer,
    device_map = "auto",
    torch_dtype = torch.bfloat16,

)

prompt = "Explain quantum computing in simple terms:"
output = pipe(prompt, max_new_tokens=200, do_sample=True, temperature=0.7)
print(output[0]["generated_text"])
```

</hfoption>

> <hfoption id="AutoModel">

Reviewer: Replace the current with this example:

```py
import torch
from transformers import AutoModelForCausalLM, AutoTokenizer

tokenizer = AutoTokenizer.from_pretrained("ibm-granite/granite-3.3-2b-base")
model = AutoModelForCausalLM.from_pretrained("ibm-granite/granite-3.3-2b-base", torch_dtype=torch.bfloat16, device_map="auto", attn_implementation="sdpa")

inputs = tokenizer("Explain quantum computing in simple terms", return_tensors="pt").to("cuda")
outputs = model.generate(**inputs, max_length=50, cache_implementation="static")
print(tokenizer.decode(outputs[0], skip_special_tokens=True))
```

Reviewer 2: "Thank you @stevhliu for clarifying the AutoModel example. Earlier, I was unsure whether I should remove the example contributed by Mayank Mishra or leave it as is."

</div>

# Granite

[Granite](https://huggingface.co/papers/2408.13359) is a 3B parameter language model trained with the Power scheduler. Discovering a good learning rate for pretraining large language models is difficult because it depends on so many variables (batch size, number of training tokens, etc.) and it is expensive to perform a hyperparameter search. The Power scheduler is based on a power-law relationship between the variables and their transferability to larger models. Combining the Power scheduler with Maximum Update Parameterization (MUP) allows a model to be pretrained with one set of hyperparameters regardless of all the variables.

You can find all the original Granite checkpoints under the [IBM-Granite](https://huggingface.co/ibm-granite) organization.

> [!TIP]
> Click on the Granite models in the right sidebar for more examples of how to apply Granite to different language tasks.

The example below demonstrates how to generate text based on an image with [`Pipeline`] or the [`AutoModel`] class.

<hfoptions id="usage">
<hfoption id="Pipeline">

```python
import torch
from transformers import pipeline

> import torch
> from transformers import pipeline

Reviewer: This is a duplicate

```suggestion
```

pipe = pipeline(
    task="text-generation",
    model="ibm-granite/granite-3.3-2b-base",
    torch_dtype=torch.bfloat16,
    device=0
)
pipe("Explain quantum computing in simple terms ", max_new_tokens=50)
```

</hfoption>
<hfoption id="AutoModel">

```python
import torch
from transformers import AutoModelForCausalLM, AutoTokenizer

tokenizer = AutoTokenizer.from_pretrained("ibm-granite/granite-3.3-2b-base")
model = AutoModelForCausalLM.from_pretrained(
    "ibm-granite/granite-3.3-2b-base",                                          
    torch_dtype=torch.bfloat16, 
    device_map="auto",
    attn_implementation="sdpa"
)

inputs = tokenizer("Explain quantum computing in simple terms", return_tensors="pt").to("cuda")
outputs = model.generate(**inputs, max_length=50, cache_implementation="static")
print(tokenizer.decode(outputs[0], skip_special_tokens=True))
```
</hfoption>

> <hfoption id="transformers-cli">

Reviewer: The transformers cli recently got reworked!

```suggestion
<hfoption id="transformers CLI">
```

```python

> echo -e "Explain quantum computing simply." | transformers-cli run --task text-generation --model ibm-granite/granite-3.3-8b-instruct --device 0

Reviewer: ```suggestion
echo -e "Explain quantum computing simply." | transformers run --task text-generation --model ibm-granite/granite-3.3-8b-instruct --device 0
```

```
</hfoption>
</hfoptions>

Quantization reduces the memory burden of large models by representing the weights in a lower precision. Refer to the [Quantization](../quantization/overview) overview for more available quantization backends.

The example below uses [bitsandbytes](../quantization/bitsandbytes) to only quantize the weights to int4.

```python
from transformers import AutoTokenizer, AutoModelForCausalLM, BitsAndBytesConfig

quantization_config = BitsAndBytesConfig(load_in_4bit=True)

tokenizer = AutoTokenizer.from_pretrained(""ibm-granite/granite-3.3-2b-base"")
model = AutoModelForCausalLM.from_pretrained(
    "ibm-granite/granite-3.3-2b-base",
    torch_dtype=torch.bfloat16,
    device_map="auto",
    attn_implementation="sdpa",
    quantization_config=quantization_config,
)

input_ids = tokenizer("Explain artificial intelligence to a 10 year old", return_tensors="pt").to("cuda")
outputs = model.generate(**inputs, max_length=50, cache_implementation="static")
print(tokenizer.decode(outputs[0], skip_special_tokens=True))
```

> ## Notes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

output = model.generate(**input_tokens, max_new_tokens=100)
# decode output tokens into text
output = tokenizer.batch_decode(output)
# loop over the batch to print, in this example, the batch size is 1
for i in output:
    print(i)
```
This model was contributed by [mayank-mishra](https://huggingface.co/mayank-mishra).

> </hfoption>

Reviewer: Add another `<hfoption>` for the `transformers-cli` example:

```bash
echo -e "Explain quantum computing simply." | transformers-cli run --task text-generation --model ibm-granite/granite-3.3-8b-instruct --device 0
```

</hfoptions>

Quantization reduces the memory burden of large models by representing the weights in a lower precision. Refer to the [Quantization](../quantization/overview) overview for more available quantization backends.

The example below uses [bitsandbytes](../quantization/bitsandbytes) to only quantize the weights to int4.

```python

> from transformers import AutoTokenizer, AutoModelForCausalLM, BitsAndBytesConfig

Reviewer: Wrong model checkpoint here ;)

```suggestion
import torch
from transformers import AutoTokenizer, AutoModelForCausalLM, BitsAndBytesConfig

quantization_config = BitsAndBytesConfig(load_in_4bit=True)
tokenizer = AutoTokenizer.from_pretrained("ibm-granite/granite-3.3-8b-base")
model = AutoModelForCausalLM.from_pretrained("ibm-granite/granite-3.3-8b-base", torch_dtype=torch.bfloat16, device_map="auto", attn_implementation="sdpa", quantization_config=quantization_config)

inputs = tokenizer("Explain quantum computing in simple terms", return_tensors="pt").to("cuda")
outputs = model.generate(**inputs, max_length=50, cache_implementation="static")
print(tokenizer.decode(outputs[0], skip_special_tokens=True))
```

Reviewer: Still need to `import torch` and use the larger 8b checkpoint instead of the 2b one.

quantization_config = BitsAndBytesConfig(load_in_4bit=True)

tokenizer = AutoTokenizer.from_pretrained("google/gemma-2-27b-it")
model = AutoModelForCausalLM.from_pretrained(
    "google/gemma-2-27b-it",
    quantization_config=quantization_config,
)

input_text = "Explain artificial intelligence to a 10 year old"
input_ids = tokenizer(input_text, return_tensors="pt").to("cuda")

outputs = model.generate(**input_ids, max_new_tokens=32)
print(tokenizer.decode(outputs[0]))
```

## Notes

- Granite models support context lengths up to 128K tokens (e.g., in Granite-3.3), thanks to Rotary Position Embeddings     (RoPE). For long-context tasks like document analysis, ensure your input sequences are padded appropriately to avoid      attention issues.
- Don’t use the torch_dtype parameter in from_pretrained() if you’re using FlashAttention-2, as it only supports fp16 or    bf16. Granite models are optimized for mixed precision, so use Automatic Mixed Precision; set fp16 or bf16 to True if 

>   using Trainer, or use torch.autocast.

Reviewer: You can remove
